All right.
As we start to pull in data from our API
into our front end of our application,
we need some sort of software
that's going to be able to make those queries,
cache the data, evict those items from the data,
handle mutations,
give us the data that comes back from the server,
if there's errors
or if there's file uploads, all that stuff.
So basically, we need a piece of software
that will talk to our GraphQL API,
and manage all of that data for us.
And in this tutorial,
we are using something called Apollo GraphQL for it
or it's called Apollo Client.
Specifically it's the piece of software
we're gonna be using on the front end.
Now, Apollo Client, I've got the finished product
up and running right here.
You can take a look here.
You can see that we have GraphQL
and here you could write all of the queries as well.
Then we have all of the queries that we write for here.
So here's an all products query.
Give me the first four, but skipped 12, why?
Because I'm on page...
I'm on page four
so I'm skipping 12 of them,
and then I'm asking, give me the first four that come back.
And in this case, it's just one
'cause there's only one on this page
but if I were to go back a page, we would see that update.
There is a little bit of an issue
with Apollo dev tools right now.
I'm hoping it will be fixed
by the time you take this course
but sometimes the data doesn't update on Apollo.
And also sometimes it doesn't connect properly
which is a bit of a bummer.
They're working on like a big update.
So I'm hoping by the time you read this,
or by the time you watch this,
it will be updated.
See there. There it's working now.
So take a look at the queries,
pagination query,
give me the first four, skip eight.
It shows you the entire query that we have written.
And it's just so good for debugging API.
You can also see any mutations that happen.
For example, if we were to add an item to our cart,
boop, boop, right?
Look that's working.
Add to cart.
You see that when we add an item to our cart,
we're passing it the ID
and then it returns to us the ID of that item as well,
as the quantity that we're in the cart.
And we can see all that data specifically in there.
Same thing, it also gives us the cache.
This is really important because,
you take a look at this page right here,
watch, I'm gonna click next.
See it took a second for the items to come in
and that's because it had to go to the API and go back.
But now if I go back back, boom, boom, boom.
You see how instant that is?
That's because Apollo GraphQL, is able to say,
"Oh we've already done that.
we already have those items
and we don't need to go to the network for them.
We can just serve them up from the cache."
And it does a lot of that heavy lifting for you.
So you simply just need to query the items,
and it will figure out if it has them
or it needs to go to the GraphQL API as well.
So setting up Apollo,
we need things that are called links.
And if we take a look at the docs here for Apollo links
they say that links is a standard interface
for modifying control flow of GraphQL requests
and fetching GraphQL results.
What does that mean?
Well, Apollo Client is made up of
a number of different links and each link is responsible
for handling how to deal with outgoing requests
to get data or to update data,
as well as responses coming back,
as well as dealing with the cache and whatnot.
And Apollo has all of the like basic stuff
that most people would need.
They put it into something called Apollo Boost
and it sort of all just tucked away into a package
because most of us just need the very simple things.
We need a cache.
We need fetching and pushing data to our API,
and a couple other things that are pretty common.
So what they do is they just wrap it up
into their own little package called Apollo Boost.
It's very, very popular.
One thing that they don't do,
and this is why I'm giving you
a little bit of starter code for this
is they don't handle image uploads.
And in order for us to do image uploads,
we need to use a third party package.
And as soon as you need to use a secondary link,
that is not part of Apollo Boost,
you have to like sort of eject from Apollo Boost.
So that's why if we go into our front end
again we're not in the backend folder anymore.
Go to your widthData.js file
that is there inside of the lib.
Now this is a whole lot of boiler plate code
and I know you might not be thrilled
that I've given it to you already,
but I'm gonna go through with you,
and sort of explain what each piece does.
And quite honestly,
this is code that you would copy paste from an example
or get it from an existing one
because it gets into the withs a little bit
and that's exactly why they put it in a package
like Apollo Boost because it is sort of boiler platey.
So we have this
and we also are gonna be adding a few things
to it ourselves,
but I thought I would go through it myself
because there's a lot that needs to happen here.
We need...
So when we have Apollo Client,
Apollo Client is again, if we look here,
this is the Apollo Client
with the cache and the queries and everything like that.
We go ahead and create a Client,
And then we inject a couple of different links that we have.
This first link is an error handling link
and all it does is
it takes in two different types of errors
that could possibly happen in your GraphQL requests.
You could have GraphQL errors where
as simple as your password was wrong, or you forgot...
You requested a field that doesn't exist.
Like if you request image on a product,
it will say,
Oh, did you mean images?
Or did you mean photo?
And it will just bring those back.
And it's really helpful just to simply console.log those out
because otherwise you have to like dig into the network tab
to see what went wrong.
So this is just really helpful in my experience.
A second one is in network error.
And this happens if your backend is down
for whatever reason,
or you have CORS issues or something like that.
Most commonly for us,
I get this error is that
like I forgot to start the backend
and you're running your front end of your application
and it pings the API endpoint,
and it gets a 400 or 500 or 404 response from it.
So in our case, we just log out the network error,
and that will help us debug exactly what's going on.
So that's the first one.
The second one, and this is the big one is,
Apollo HTTP link.
So this is the really popular one
that pretty much everybody will use.
And this is responsible for fetching data
as well as making post requests,
which is when you wanna update or delete
or create a new item.
And inside of react, Apollo is gonna give us
both query and mutation hooks that will allow us to do that.
And this HTTP link is going to allow us.
You might be saying like
"Wes, that doesn't say HTTP link,
that says create upload link."
So the thing we need to know is that
this is this separate package called create upload link,
called Apollo upload Client.
And essentially what they have done
is they've taken Apollo HTTP link,
and layered on additional code
in order to allow us to do file uploads
which is exactly what we need.
So again, don't sweat this too much.
This is getting a little bit into the withs here
but if we take a look here,
it says where's the GraphQL endpoint
and if we take a look at our config.js
you'll see we have a localhost 3000, API/GraphQL.
And if you visit that URL in your browser,
you'll see this is the one that we were working with earlier
where we can query things.
So that's the URL of our GraphQL endpoint.
And then we'll also have a production endpoint
where I'll pop the URL in there.
And then I have one more thing
is how many items should be shown per page.
You could also put these as environmental variables,
but in my experience, it's sometimes a little easier
if they're not sensitive information
just pop them in a JS file
so you can import and export them as you need it.
What else?
FetchOption include credentials.
So that means whenever it goes off and fetches data
from our GraphQL endpoint,
should it send the cookies along for the ride?
And in our case, yes
because we need to see if uses are logged in or not,
depending on what they're allowed to do
or what pieces of information they're allowed to see.
And then also, pass along the headers from their request.
This is really, really important
because we are using server-side rendering.
And if you are trying to server-side render logged in state,
like for example, I go to this page right here
and I refresh.
Oh, I am...
I got signed out.
I got signed out because I signed into my other one.
So maybe if I open this up in an incognito tab
and I go ahead and sign in,
gmail.com, Wes, Wes, Wes.
There we go.
So watch, when I refresh this page,
you see how like it shows my cart.
All of these things are in the signed in state immediately.
If you've ever been to a website
and you get like a little flicker
that says log in for a second
and then a split second later it says,
Oh, sign out and it shows like your avatar,
that's because on the server side,
they don't know if you're signed in or not.
So they just send the logged out version to the thing
and then they have to rerender it on the Client side.
And that's really annoying 'cause you get this like flicker.
So by sending along all the cookies and headers
with every single request, it will allow us to render
on the server side, all of the logged in states
so you don't get that weird flicker
every single time that you run the thing.
So that was really important to me.
And that is why I stick the JWT into a cookie,
and not into local storage,
because local storage can't be sent to the server
when somebody refreshes the page,
but cookies can be
and that's by these two things right here.
Last thing, whoo, I know this is a lot stick with me.
We're gonna get into writing some react code
in just a second.
The last thing is a cache.
So where will you be storing the cache?
Most popular way is just in memory
meaning that in the browser.
So if I go to this page right here
and I'm clicking back and forth,
you see how it's nice and fast.
But then if I had to refresh the page, that cache has gone
and that's okay, 'cause that's all you want.
You just want it for the users
however long they have visited.
We will get a little bit more
into something called typepolicies, but not for now.
And then finally this little bit right here
it will restore any initial state.
And what that does is
because we're initially rendering these views on the server,
we need to hot potato all the data
that was collected on the server Apollo Client,
and we need to give it to the hydration on the Client.
And that's exactly what this is doing.
It's saying if there's any initial state, then restore it,
otherwise, go ahead.
Last thing we just need to know is this getDataFromTree.
We take a look where that's used right here.
We're using a package called
withApollo that allows us to crawl
all of our arch pages and components,
and look for any queries that we have.
So queries for products and users
and orders and things like that.
And it will crawl them,
and it will make sure that we have fetched
and it will wait for all that data to be fetched
before the server sends the HTML
from the server to the Client.
So, I know that's a whole lot,
and that's why they often tuck away this
into a nice little Apollo Boost.
But I thought I would go through that with you.
So, I know that's a lot
but now what we'll do is we'll actually
take this with data function,
and we'll create an instance of Apollo,
and inject it into our application.
And the place where we do that,
is inside of our Underscore app.js file.
Remember we did this.
And we need to wrap our entire application
in what's called a provider.
And a provider in react,
is a component that usually lives
very high in your application,
and then it allows components that are several levels deep
in order to access that data.
So for example
the Apollo Client is at an application level
meaning that anywhere inside of this application,
I can go and fetch data from the Apollo Client.
Even if I need like the price,
I can get that at this product level component,
even though it probably lives at a much higher level.
And that's what a provider does, is it,
you stick a provider very nice and high.
We're gonna be creating our own providers
for things like the cart.
So we'll get to that.
But for now, let's go into our app.js,
and around our page we will give ourselves a new tag
called Apollo provider.
And you see that it imported the Apollo provider
from Apollo Client.
And then we will wrap that in our entire page here,
then Apollo provider needs a Client property,
and we are going to make one, so right above here.
And that is gonna come in via up here.
So we'll say...
Next to page props we'll also destructure Apollo,
and we'll put it into our Client here.
And you may be saying like,
"Okay Wes, but like
where does that come from?
Like if my app is as high as we possibly can get
in our application, who's handing us the Apollo prop Wes?"
Well, the answer to that is when we export our application,
we're gonna wrap it with data function.
And what that will do is it's going to
give us our entire application component,
but it will give it to us with our data.
That's why it's called withData.
So what we'll do here is,
we'll take off the export default from my app,
and we'll go down here and we'll say export default my app
okay normal, but we'll wrap it in withData.
And then we'll need to import that with data function, boom,
from lib withData.
And now what that will do is it says,
okay, give me my app
but inject the Apollo Client along inside of it.
Okay.
That was a little bit of code that we wrote.
And let's just go and see if it's working so far.
And what you can do is...
Let's just console.log Apollo inside of here.
We'll go back to our actual application
which is on localhost 777.
Gonna open up my dev tools.
Just refresh the page,
and look, this is our Apollo Client right here.
You see it's got cache,
a whole bunch of other stuff
mutate, query, query deduplication.
Most of the stuff we don't have to care about
but you should also see the Apollo dev tools,
is now popped up in our application
because it has figured out,
oh you actually have an Apollo Client now,
so we can see inside of it.
And if we look at it, there's nothing there
'cause we haven't actually written any queries
or mutations just yet.
The last thing we need to do here
is to tell Next.js,
that it needs to go and fetch all of the queries
that are in all of the children components.
So what we'll do here is we'll say,
my app.getInitialProps.
My app.getInitialProps,
that is a specific Next.js thing.
And this is in a sync method
meaning that we can wait on it to do anything.
You could wait on it to go fetch data from an API.
You could wait 10 seconds
if you want it to delay your loading by 10 seconds
for whatever reasons.
But that's what we mean by in a sync function.
'So it's equal to a sync function.
And in that, the props of that function
will destructure the component, and CTX, the context
and we'll say, let pageProps is equal to that,
and we'll say, if the component.getInitialProps,
then we will say, pageProps dot...
Oh no, is equal to await component.getInitialProps
and we'll pass the context.
So essentially what we're doing right here is we're saying
if any of the pages have
a getInitialProps method on them,
which they will,
because that's what withData is adding to them
then we're going to just wait and go and fetch it.
Again, this is more boiler plate that happens
because of how Apollo and Next.js work together.
And then underneath here, what we'll do is we'll say,
pageProps.query is equal to ctx.query,
and that will allow us to get the any query variables
like Forward slash products,
forward slash two available at a page level,
and then we'll return pageProps.
Beautiful.
Okay. So that is our app.
Let's just triple check that it's still working.
There's no errors.
No. This is looking pretty good.
This is not my most favorite thing.
I wish that this would be tucked away a little bit nicer,
but that is sort of a side effect
of JavaScript in general is that,
you're taking two things that have no idea about each other
and if you wanna make them work together,
you sometimes have to write 30 or 40 lines of glue
in order to get them to work together.
So, good job getting through that,
let's get into some more fun stuff
which is writing queries and mutations
and writing some react hooks.
I'll see you in the next one.